### Your First Jobs

The job titles that will be most suited for your present or near present skill set. Keep in anyone can put any requirements, skills, and tools they want under the job title, but as a general rule these will be jobs most likely to match you now:Data AnalystJr Data ScientistReports Developer (as opposed to Analyst)Business Intelligence Developer (as opposed to Analyst)Jobs that would appear close, but you likely will be bored out of your mind in 3 months:Reports AnalystBusiness AnalystSystem AnalystThese people write a lot of documentation, attend a lot of meetings, and convey a lot of messages and reports. Smarter admin assistants.
Next level jobs that you could get to in your 2nd role or in 2-4 years. These roles will have a natural sort of sequence to them assuming you land a role that best fits your current skill set.Data ScientistData EngineerMachine Learning EngineerDatabase EngineerThese are also possible in 2-4 years, but they are not in direct line of the main roles you'd be hired for now. You'd have to learn the skills needed on the side vs on the job.Web DeveloperData Visualization EngineerSoftware Engineer
Roles likely 5-10 years away IF you are directionally bent towards them in the mean time. That is, they won't just happen. You have to find things interesting and learn a lot of extra things not typically found in any of the jobs above to get these jobs:Big Data EngineerSystems EngineerDevOps EngineerCloud EngineerSolutions ArchitectData ArchitectThere's a few other roles that are likely to come out of nowhere every 5 years. They're typically tied to a framework that is "game changing". e.g. Spark Developer (for Big Data), React Developer (Front-end Development), Airflow Developer (ETL job scheduling), Angular Developer (Front-end Development), and so on. Ruby on Rails was this as was Django and Wordpress/PHP at one time. Big candidates right now are possibly Tensorflow and PyTorch for deep learning. Or another tool that envelops ways to develop, train, and deploy Deep Learning models. An embedded systems framework for "IoT" (eye oh tee) or the Internet of Things such as programming your fridge, your lawn lights, and all those systems into one cohesive unit -- could be another candidate. I'm merely guessing tho. It'll be obvious and make sense when it happens. :)
